Honestly, log searching tends to
be a drag, often doesn't work.
If I could spend one minute looking at the
logs to find a bug that could take me two
hours to find,
of course I'll always make that trade
off while it's shot in the dark.
But most of the time you have to do this.
Get bisect.
Bisect works by searching through gits
commits for you, and you get to mark
if something's good or bad,
however you decide, it's good and bad.
And then it will do the legwork to
determine which commit you should look at.
So it's pretty clever.
There's some unique properties
that make this true.
All commits are ordered.
I've been saying this, I intentionally
said this is that the order of commits
is effectively timed, which means
that if If I go back one commit,
that commit should be
further back in time.
And so
you can kind of see how that would work.
That means if I go halfway back, I've
gone halfway through or effectively our
project's lifecycle of some sort,
however, if they're evenly spaced out.
So everything is in order, which means
it kind of acts like an ordered array,
correct?
In some sense, yeah,
it's like an ordered array.
Another thing that you need to have for
bisect is that you need
to know the two changes.
It doesn't matter how far apart they are.
Let's just say you know that
it's currently broken, so
you go back 1,000 commits,
and it's working.
That's fine.
You just need a point in time
in which there's two changes.
That's it.
So let's talk about property one,
because I think it's really interesting.
If it currently fails and you go back
10 commits and it's still failing,
what can you say about
going back 9 commits?
Is it gonna pass or fail?
How about eight commits, fail,
seven commits, fail, six, five,
four, three, two, one.
All of them are going to fail, right?
That's the idea of Git bisect,
is that due to time and
assuming that the bug isn't somewhere
highs and bug floating in and
out of space, you should be able to
quickly go to the correct solution.
So to kind of put it visually,
if you had commit a and commit b and
you have no idea where it's failing at.
If you picked the middle commit c and
you test it,
If c works,
what can you say about this graph?
>> The problem lies between c and
whatever followed it.
>> C and b, right?
You've cut the space in half where
the problem could be, right?
Yay, or, yeah, the problem lies by just
say it inverted, a through c is good.
And this other side is unknown.
And so the exact opposite is true
given the exact same situation again,
if c fails, what can we say?
Well, we can say that between c and
b, it's bad and between c and a,
we just don't know yet.
So we don't know if it's good or bad.
We just know it's bad at c, so
it's bad all the way up to b.
So that means we can cut half
the space every single search.
And this is the fundamental for
binary search.
This is, if you think about a binary tree,
walking binary tree,
it's the exact same kind
of principle in general.
This, we're just doing
it with commits instead.
>> Does using bisect make an argument
against rebase since it needs to be
in order?
>> No, rebase, I mean it's about
your history of your branch.
I mean, you've moved your stuff forward,
but at some point, it's committed and
it's in the branch or it's in.
So yeah, if you move your stuff forward
and you test it and it's still broken,
then it's broken until you
find a working commit.
It doesn't really change anything.
All right, by the way,
I don't know if you know this, but
Frontend Masters has
a free algorithm course.
I heard the guy that teaches it,
it's pretty cool.
That's what I've been told.
Kind of sounds like Gilbert Godfrey
though, or Charlie Day, wish Charlie Day.
Yeah, that's another one that someone said
to me, and it really hurt my feelings.
Anyways, it's full free.
Hashtag ad, everybody, hashtag ad.
Okay, so the pros you don't need
to know anything about the bug.
You don't need to rely on commit messages,
you don't need to rely on anything other
than a way to test to see if
it is working or not working.
It's the fastest way to
search a sorted space is
via cutting the space in
half every single time.
There's no faster way.
Unless if you have some sort of HashMap.
Then once you know where the good and
bad are, right, that's hash mapping.
You don't have to search only for a bug.
So if there's a performance regression,
say there's a performance improvement,
say there's anything and
you want to find it happening.
If you have a test that you can prove
that it does and doesn't happen,
you can bisect your way to
the commit that changed whatever.
So it's a way to do change
detection more than anything else.
The only con is that if it
takes a lot of time to test and
you could do some alternative
means to find the change,
maybe a quick log search
will be your best friend.
Just to like give a shot in the dark as
opposed to having to deal with bisect for
hours if it takes a long time.
Anyways, so you get the idea.
So when you cut space in half,
it's log of n.
So it takes seven searches
to go through 128 commits,
one search to go through one commit,
right?
So it doesn't grow very fast at all,
grows logarithmically.
It's very fantastic.
All right, so the basics of bisect,
all you do is you say git bisect start,
then you say get bisect bad saying,
hey, the current commit's bad.
Then you select a good commit, and
then at that point, you test and
you just tell it whether it's good or bad.
Just start checking out stuff until it
gets to the exact point in which it found
the error.
So you just keep on doing this over and
over again until it stops.
So we're gonna do the exact same thing.
We're gonna take the first commit of
the repo and the current tip of master and
we're gonna try to find
where does it break.
So git bisect start, step one.
Then git bisect bad.
So I'm saying this commit
is the bad commit.
Now we need to get the very
first commit of the repo.
There's a lot of different ways to do it.
So I'll just go like this,
git log --oneLine.
This is just very, very easy.
There it is right there.
So I'll just copy this one out,
the b56ed57.
And then I can go git
bisect good right there.
So I'm gonna search the entire
repo from beginning to end.
There we go.
It says bisecting 11
revisions roughly four steps.
So is this one good or bad?
I'll go like this, npm run test.
>> I wanted to say binary search so
much when you're talking about that.
I was just thinking, it's right there.
>> It's right there.
All right, look at that, it failed.
Okay, by the way, npm run,
it doesn't run it once.
It just keeps it on watch mode, because
by test default, apparently it's watch.
So that means we need
to go git bisect bad.
And there it goes.
There's five revisions left,
roughly three steps.
Look at that.
This one passed, fantastic.
So I'll say, git bisect good.
All right, two revisions left,
roughly two steps.
Let's run test.
All right, look at that, it passed.
So we'll do a little git bisect good.
And now there are zero revisions left.
This is the last step.
I'll run it once more, and now either
the commit I'm on is the good one or
the bad one.
And so it's able to tell if it's good,
that means the next commit over is the bad
one, the offending commit, the bad change,
or this is the offending change.
And so
it'll be able to tell with this last test.
I refuse to git rebase this, I refuse.
We will experience the wait together.
All right, so this one failed.
So I just got to go like this,
git bisect bad.
And porque maria, whoa, right there.
It says right here.
It says apparently zero steps left,
which is a little suspicious.
Okay, well, we gotta run
the test once more, apparently.
I'm not exactly sure why
this one went this way.
In all the times I did it,
it actually was done after four of them.
But I guess we're gonna wait,
one last 30 seconds.
Porque 972fasa.
Well, look at that.
Git bisect bad.
So tells you right here,
this one is where it went wrong.
And this is the commit,
in fact, which went wrong.
So it was able to go through and
we're able to kind of find
where the problem was.
But here's the deal.
Was that kind of annoying?
Was that like not a fun experience?
Here, I'm gonna scroll all the way
through this, you can automate it.
So, well, let's do it again, but this
time let's add the word run to it, okay?
So I'm gonna go here and
I'm gonna go, let's see.
Git status, git a bisect reset.
We're back at the tip.
So now we just gotta go like this,
git bisect start,
git bisect bad, and
git bisect good, right here.
And then go git bisect run.
And then I think it's, what is it?
It's, node_modules/
.bin/vitest --run.
If you do --run, it doesn't try to watch.
Therefore, it'll just quit, right?
We'll do that.
And now all we have to do is just wait.
Just a little bit of waiting.
By the way, I see some people saying
they didn't know that this existed.
This is why it's really good to always
just do a quick little run through of
the friendly manual or
a couple git searches, and
just kind of know how the things work or
how people use it.
Because often you'll find that you're
doing something fairly inefficient when
the better thing is just
right around the corner.
Look at this.
Hey, look at that.
It found the commit.
Look at that.
We didn't even do anything.
Found the commit right here.
How nice is that?
So bisect run is really nice.
You should definitely use bisect
run if you have a problem,
especially if it can be boiled
down to a quick test to run.
Beautiful, right?